In this demonstration, you will learn how to create and checkout a branch.
Let's switch to Visual Studio.
As you can see, we work now with my user account as user Thomas.
I've opened here Team Explorer and you can see I have opened
the WiredBrainCoffee.ShopInfoTool repository.
Now let's implement the coffee shop commands for this coffee shop info tool.
To do this, let's don't create the commits on the master branch,
instead let's create a separate branch for that feature so that
we can work isolated on that feature without being affected by
other commits on the master branch.
To create a branch, you just go to the Branches page of Team Explorer.
Here you can click on New Branch.
You just need to enter a name here and you need to select the
branch from which you want to branch off.
In this case, we want to branch off master.
So now let's give our new branch a name.
Let's call it feature/coffeeShopCommands.
As you can see, here is a checkbox.
When you have this checked,
the branch will automatically be checked out after it was created.
Let me uncheck this checkbox and let's click on Create Branch.
Now you can see here our new coffeeShopCommands branch.
To switch to this branch, you need to check it out.
You can do this by right-clicking this branch and select
here Checkout from the context menu.
Or you can also just double-click this branch and now it's checked out.
You can see that branch is now bold.
The bold branch is the one you have checked out.
Instead of using Team Explorer to switch between branches,
you can also use Visual Studio's status bar.
Down here, you can see that we are now on the feature/coffeeShopCommands branch.
When you click on this, you see also different branch options.
You can view the history of the current branch or you can click,
for example, here Manage Branches,
which will bring you to the Branches page of Team Explorer.
At the top, you can see the local branches that are on your machine.
So now you can click here on master to check out the master branch.
Now you can see in Team Explorer that the master branch
is checked out because it is bold.
You can also see down here in the status bar that we
have checked out the master branch.
Now let's use the status bar again to check out our
feature/coffeeShopCommands branch.
Now let's actually implement the coffee shop commands.
So let's go to the Solution Explorer and let's open up the Program.cs file.
Let's scroll down here to the if statement where we handled the head command.
If the use didn't enter the string help, it is a coffee shop command.
So let's enter here an else block,
and now let's implement here the logic to handle the coffee shop commands.
I have already prepared that logic, so I just paste it here into this else block.
Let me put the cursor here on the where method and let's press
Ctrl+dot to add a using for System.Linq.
Now let's go through this code.
As you can see,
here we grabbed all the coffee shops where the location starts with
a line that the user has entered in the console.
Then, we check the found coffee shops.
If 0 coffee shops were found,
we print out that the command that the user has entered was not found.
If one coffee shop was found,
we grab that single coffee shop from the found coffee shops list and we
write the Location and the Beans in stock to the console.
Else, if more than one coffee shop was found,
we print out multiple matching coffee shop commands found.
Then we write the location of all the found coffee shops to the console.
So let's see if this works, and let's run the application.
Let's type in help, and now you can see the available coffee shop commands.
Let's type in Thomas, as this is not an available coffee shop command.
Now you can see Command Thomas not found.
Now let's type in Munich, let's hit Enter,
and now you can see that we have 56 kilograms of
coffee beans in stock in Munich.
Now let's type in just fr,
and now we can see that multiple matching coffee shop commands were found,
Frankfurt and Freiburg.
So I could just type in here frank, and I hit Enter,
and now you can see that 107 kg of coffee beans are in stock in Frankfurt.
Great!
Now let's use the quit command to exit the application.
So everything works as expected.
Now let's go to Team Explorer to commit our changes.
Let's use the status bar to navigate to the Changes page.
As you can see, we have here one change.
Let's click on it, and now we are on the Changes page of Team Explorer.
Let's enter here the commit message, Handle coffee shop commands.
Now let's use here the drop-down and let's select Commit All and Push.
Now you can see here the outgoing commit,
and now we successfully pushed the branch feature/coffeeShopCommands to origin,
which is the remote repository.
Let's go to the Branches page of Team Explorer and
let's expand here remotes/origin.
Now you can see that the feature coffeeShopCommands
branch is in our remote repository.
Great!
In the next clip, we will continue with the user Julia. She will work on another feature.